---
title: News Rankings
category: Results
order: 490
---

A search engine's primary job is to rank results. In other words, search
engines try to put results that most quickly and accurately answer the query on
top. At DuckDuckGo we produce search results from a [variety of sources][1],
and when we apply our own ranking signals we do so in a strictly non-political
manner, meaning we don't evaluate or otherwise take into account any potential
political bias or leanings of websites in our search result rankings.
Similarly, outside of our clearly labeled ads, we do not accept compensation to
influence search result rankings.

For many news events, hundreds of media outlets create similar articles, and
many of those articles have similar relevancy in terms of keyword matching and
popularity. As such, for [news-related searches][2] we look to another ranking
factor to try to ensure the top few news results aren't obviously very
low-quality so users can immediately have several sources of relevant, quality
news results to compare and choose between.

The non-political factor we've found to help accomplish this ranking is a
well-documented history of a site's extremely low journalistic standards,
correlated with: routinely using spam or clickbait to artificially inflate
traffic, consistently publishing stories without citing sources, censoring
stories due to operating with very limited press freedom, and misleading
readers about who owns, funds, and authors stories for the site.

Many sites may occasionally do one or more of these things, but we take action
very rarely, only in the most extreme cases. To identify these rare, extreme
cases, we rely on multiple non-governmental and non-political organizations
that specialize in objectively assessing journalistic standards. To take any
ranking action using this factor, we must see at least three of these
organizations independently assess a site as having extremely low journalistic
standards and also see that none of these organizations have assessed the same
site as having even somewhat robust journalistic standards.

We trust that users can find the right information for themselves, so even in
these rare cases we do not remove these sites from our search results page.
Additionally, impacted sites are not moved so far down in the results that they
are effectively removed. Unless legally prohibited, you should find all media
outlets in our results, and they should generally show on top if you search for
them by name or domain name. If you see otherwise, please [let us know][3] and
we will investigate.

[1]: /duckduckgo-help-pages/results/sources/
[2]: /duckduckgo-help-pages/features/news/
[3]: /duckduckgo-help-pages/company/contact-us/